The widespread availability of CAD tools and rapid manufacturing techniques
like 3D printing and laser cutting allows designers to rapidly prototype the
shape of new devices.  Many such devices also feature electromechanical input
components: buttons, scroll wheels, volume knobs, etc.  Prototyping interactive
devices requires more than just shape, adding sensors requires intimate
knowledge of both electronics and practical limitations of the fabrication
technologies and materials being used.  To assist these types of designers, we
have developed Skuld, a CAD plugin (openSCAD module?) which takes high-level
sensing needs specifications and modifies designers’ models to house
electronics and fabricated parts to accomplish these goals.  Designers describe
their desired inputs in the form of Card’s input device tuple, specifying
Manipulation Operator (position/rotation, force/torque), Input Domain,
Resolution Function, and Output Domain using a series of sliders and radio
buttons.  Skuld then modifies the designer’s model to include input sensors
which will fulfill these requirements: it modifies the interior of the model to
include housings and routing guides for the required electronics, and it adds
features to the exterior of the model appropriate for user actuation.  Skuld
also generates a parts list and assembly instructions.  Skuld is aware of both
3D printing and laser cutting technologies, and can be used to automate in
interactivity design for prototypes designed for either or a hybrid of the two;
the system uses a set of rules on wall thickness and material strength to
validate the generated models (this sounds like BS, but I’m not sure how it
works yet).  To demonstrate Skuld’s effectiveness, we performed a first-use
user study where users were asked to add sensing functionality to a 3D model of
a child’s toy (generated previously by us) for fabrication in either our 3D
printer or on our laser cutter.  The authors also demonstrate several sensing
prototypes fabricated using Skuld.
